.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH net2disk 1 "August 2011" Linux "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
.B net2disk
\- Capture data from network interface and record to disk.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B net2disk
.B [--snaplen 
.I <capture length>
.B ]
.B [--promiscuous]
.B [--log_config
.I <filename>
.B ]
.B [--interfaces
.I <list of net interfaces>
.B ]
.B [--capture_files 
.I <list of files>
.B ]
.B [--smp_affinities
.I <list of affinities>
.B ]
.B [--ring_buffers
.I <total # ring buffers>
.B ]
.B [--write_blocks
.I <# write blocks per capture file>
.B ]
.B [--help]
.B ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B net2disk
Captures data from one or more network interfaces and writes data
to one or more disks. Each network interface is mapped to its own
disk. Each network interface/disk pair is processed in a separate 
process.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "--snaplen <capture length>"
Length of bytes to capture (includes L2 header and above in the
protocol stack)

.IP "--promiscuous"
When present, sets each opened ethernet interface to promiscuous mode.

.IP "--log_config <filename>"
Configuration file for application logging subsystem.


.IP "--interfaces <list of net interfaces>"
List of network interfaces from which data are captured.

.IP "--capture_files <list of files>"
List of files to which data are written. These files are paired with
the network interfaces supplied in the --interfaces option, according
to their ordering on the command line.

.IP "--smp_affinities <list of affinities>"
List of SMP processor affinities. Each affinity is specified as a
number which is the number of the CPU to which a process should be
mapped (starting from 0). The arguments to the --interfaces,
--capture_files, and --smp_affinities options create a set of three
tuples fo the form: <interfaceN, fileN, affinityN>. This represents a
configuration where interfaceN and fileN are served in the same
process which is executed on processor affinityN.

.IP "--ring_buffers <total # of ring buffers>"
The total number of ring buffers to use in the system.

.IP "--write_blocks <# write blocks per capture file>"
The total number of write blocks to use for each capture file.

.IP"--help"
Print a usage message.


.SH FILES
.I /opt/haystack/mark6/etc/net2disk.conf
.RS
Application logging configuration file.

.RE
.I /opt/haystack/mark6/bin/net2disk.sh
.RS
Execution script. This script will start a new net2disk instance.

.RE
.I /opt/haystack/mark6/bin/net2disk
.RS
Mark6 data-plane executable. This gets called by net2disk.sh.

.RE
.I /opt/haystack/mark6/log/
.RS
Logging directory. All log files and statistics files are stored here.

.RE
.I /opt/haystack/mark6/log/net2disk.log
.RS
Log file. All application logging (DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, etc.)
is sent to this log file.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
None

.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The following diagnostics may be issued on stderr:
 
Bad magic number.
.RS
The input file does not look like an archive file.
.RE
Old style baz segments.
.RS
.B foo
can only handle new style baz segments. COBOL
object libraries are not supported in this version.

.SH BUGS
None known at this time.

.SH AUTHOR
David Lapsley <del at haystack dot mit dot edu>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mark6 (1),
.BR dimino6 (1)

